	This ball of entangled strings, like a cobweb folded onto itself sits in my stomach, my chest and my mind. I’ve been turning it around for so long it feels quite familiar, it stretches back throughout the past. Turning my back to the future I can see the mingle unfold and stretch behind me through time like a vine I am hanging on, slowly moving backwards into the unknown and like a spider I am weaving the rope to support the weight of my soul. Hanging in the void, strands extending back up into the darkness of the past. In the distance to my sides there are figures, figures obscured by mist and vapour, suspended on webs of their own. Their faces are left to my imagination, for the only thing I can make out in the darkness is the way they carry their own weight. Some hang limp with only a weak twine slowly stretching and thinning down by the inevitable gravity of time, some ceaselessly busy themselves to weave their strings into thick ropes or tapestries. Over there I can see two silhouettes who pushed through the expanse to connect their eternal works, dancing around while interweaving the filaments into an intricate fractal cord, I envy them. There were times the enigmatic winds of the void displaced my strand far enough to latch onto the web of an other. I could never make out their faces, sometimes their eyes would shine through the blackness like two mirror marbles, making my mind go into an infinite loop. I couldn’t bare it, there was work to be done, for there were now two bodies carried by gusts of arcane wind, slowly pulled down into the abyss by the gravity of time. When I close my eyes, I can see high up where these encounters came to an end, torn strings hanging limp from the sides of the cord that holds myself. It brings the utmost fright to cut a cord, for you could fall down to the abyss if what is left is not enough. In any case the cessation from an other produces a swing of a magnitude in proportion to how far you have diverged from your original path, to how well you latched on to the other’s strand and even to the flexibility of the strands; and of course if the swing is powerful enough, it can cause your fall in and of itself. When you survive the cut and you survive the tragic pendulum, what happens is you inevitably pivot back and there are dangers in latching back in fright, for both your strand and the other’s had been weakened by the violent act. Looking back up again I see the patched and torn structure impossible to repair. Underneath the weak ragged parts there are the tiniest little vines coming from the sides, slim cords carried by the winds to me at the time, which I had to add onto mine, no matter what they were, no matter their colour, texture and origin. These strange, foreign strands pull mine in random directions, making the whole structure dangerously curve through the darkness. The whole pattern looks chaotic, feeble, fragile. Going lower with my eyes I see stronger and stronger strands, sometimes whole ropes I weaved into mine with more selection and care. There are some massive parallel ones going alongside, sometimes weaving in, sometimes weaving out, the lines forever close and dear to my hearth. They help support the structure in the sections of the utmost weakness.

	Hanging here getting caressed by wind and gently swinging in the eternal womb despite the frightening abyss below is not something that comes to one lightly. For most of my life I have been either frantically weaving, pulling on strands, every movement and every vibration engulfing me in dread of the fall; or pretending I do not exist and this is all a mysterious joke, my strand slowly stretching thin while I dangled motionless in the vast expanse, wrapped up in a thick cocoon of webbing. Other cords carried to me and away, without me there to notice. It takes effort to break the shell every time, and there were many times, like a pendulum I would swing for an eternity. Delirious frenzy turning into dismal stasis pivoting back into raving madness, stasis, frenzy, stasis, frenzy. One needs to adjust slowly, observe one’s own absurdity with faith, the foolishness with a smile, the sadness with compassion; and maybe one day something comes around, a ray of light shines through the darkness, breaks you into countless shards and what you put back together is a mosaic composed of that very faith, the compassion and the smile.

	Now I see the beauty, I see the harmony, there is music to be heard as all the cords throughout this dark universe vibrate, hum, mumble, purr and trill. Sometimes an intricate melody is to be heard when a figure somewhere in the distance sets to weave in a stable tempo, sometimes there is dissonant rumbling and banging when webs clash, and the most frightening sound - of a cord snapping, followed by a lasting echoed wail of a soul suspended in nothingness, with no force holding her stable, the only hope to be caught in a web somewhere below. But even the dismal echoes add a flavour to the symphony, and there is a certain grace in turning the ghastly reverberations into but a component of a delicate, complex scheme, those who are able to do that had created webs of unimaginable beauty, fractality and strength.
	Such a miracle of design either comes about through determination and genius, or it can be a product of a vast orchestration of countless lost souls finding their place in the collective effort. Only few such structures you encounter here in the void. The deepest sounds you can only hear through your bones get carried in the air far and wide, their origin massive compositions fabricated over eternities by the concerted crowd. Indescribable elaborate intricacy and the gargantuan scale leave one gasping in awe, perplexity and fear. Beware of latching on and engaging with these behemoths, it is no wonder that many a soul gets lost in the ever more labyrinthine halls. Over there in the distance I can make out the silhouette of one such prime case, it’s been making me nervously clasp my lifeline for a while now, its deep bellows surging through my dear rope in noticeable waves. These leviathans are endowed with a certain gravity as I can readily observe when looking up at the curve my path has been circumscribing, an elegant arch of an elliptical trajectory slowly bending towards the dark mountain of a shadow in the distance. My hearth is filled with anticipation, dread, reverence. There is a sacredness to these encounters.

	Some details are emerging from the black mist and they gradually fill up the contour, I can make out the massive cylinder of a grandiose proportion way back up into the past far above my head, it is ancient. Gentler tones are now joining the sonorous depths in my ears, I am entering an orbit of something beyond my wildest imaginations, it is still so far away and yet my entire being is already attuning to its presence. The outer wall begins to emit some light, complex luminous fabric of an insurmountable count of threads of all possible sizes and natures. An entire nation sized orchestra now toys with my eardrums, reverberates through my skull and sends shivers down my spine, I find myself holding down every other breath, unable to enter my own mind, being squeezed down to an infinitesimal corner of my psyche. Careful now, I strain all my will and the cubic inch my self constricted to hitherto expands ever so slightly. Dread fills my hearth and finally spreads into the mind, I am thankful for the heat and for the ice it submerges me in, I tense up my entire being to expand the orbit outwards, to slow down the approach and at this instant all I can think of is getting away. The weave shows its qualities, this is when one’s patient effort comes to light crunched into one dramatic moment. Gently I enter on a circular orbit around the leviathan. Time to examine it from all angles, before I dare to engage, if I ever do.

	Attuned to the waves of sound moving the air around me I can perceive ever so slight details in it, steady clicking and tapping, layers of melodies carried by the prime waves, humming and whispers. Looking closer I see more than a neat arrangement of filaments on the outer wall of the formation, there are loose threads flapping with the gusts of wind exposing gaps and tears. Patches of mismatched material fill some of the holes, others look like burrows of ancient creatures better not to encounter. One distinct melody shines through the mass of sound, like a fragile golden trill of a captive bird. It is impossible to find its source, so I can only close my eyes and let it take over the symphony inside of my mind. As if it is this gentle chime that dictates the whole theme now, even the heavy low pitched hums in my bones being bent around it, springing from every moment just to carry it through space. Lulled by the beauty I fall asleep.

	Dream in a dream, standing in between mirrors, a constricted space that contains myself expands into infinity behind the two glass panes. Despite seeing into eternity and back I can only move in place, with the countless copies of me lifting their limbs in unison. Bending my head slightly I try to see my own back, but my face keeps covering it. My toes tingle, my fingers tingle. I open the palm of my hand, looking at the web of lines impressed in it. As if a millennium had passed in a single moment. What am I waiting here for? Nothing but the endless repetition of the same little compartment laughs at my existence. Closing my eyes I fix myself on the silence. There. The tingle in my fingertips becomes a sound somewhere in the distance. A tiny golden trill. Eyelids lifted, I can now see it! Inside the mirror world, far back through the cascade of reappearances there is a glimmer almost impossible to perceive. I turn around and there in the opposite infinity I find it also. Which is the origin and which is the reflection? Puzzled and hypnotised by its movement I freeze down. The glimmer forms into a delicate filament caressed by an invisible breeze, moving ever so slightly towards me. It is close to the inside surface of the mirror now, my narrow dream reality still oblivious to it. Inching closer and closer from behind the mirror I cannot keep my hand from extending and… *wake up* …closer and closer… *WAKE UP*.

	A sudden crack whips through the void. The gargantuan column reenters my once again conscious mind. Another loud crack and the harmony falls apart for an instant, a massive column separates from the façade together with a whole crowd of souls and my whole being is overwhelmed by the eerie whizzing and screeching that follows the outlandishly slow swing of the immensely thick strand out into the blackness. There is eternal silence for that brief moment… then slowly the clicking resumes followed by a gentle hum and soon the space around me is hit by an imposing echo of the partial collapse. The melodies have changed, there is nervousness, dissonance, filling me with fear and even anger. Torn ropes and strings hang where there had been a wall, the whole structure threateningly twisting to a side with a sonorous bellow as I look downwards. Time to work for those attached to the mysterious leviathan. Groups of little figures start emerging all around the weakest spots and the clicking picks up tempo, the intonation shifts. What separated is likely to come back and if so, there will be a clash echoing through all. This is not a place for me to be, and serenity fills my hearth. This colossus is not a work of my mind and my mind is not the work of it, my departure will be an unnoticed incident, turning into a memory.

	Then just in front of me a strand enters my field of view. It’s been ejected by the calamity and its disheveled end is drawing an elliptical path, exactly towards mine. It glimmers in the darkness with a tingle of brilliance. There is something for me to carry onwards after all. Stretching my arm as far as I can to intersect it I manage to catch the filament. It is gently warm to touch and the vibrating chime it adds to the sounds of the void around me makes me close my eyes with delight. I trace the elegant arc of the fine cord, it goes up up up, gently bending and down, down, down into the abyss. The top of the curve changing shape, the arc nonchalantly collapsing. The hearth in my chest implodes with panic and bewilderment. How is this thread coming from down below? Has it been hanging underneath the leviathan column all along? How long is it? How heavy is it? No time to lose I make haste to quickly weave it into my supporting lifeline with a mighty knot. As the arc of the delicate fibre collapses fully, there goes a slow wave down the glimmering filament like a whip about to crack and I brace myself for a force of the weight about to pull me down and maybe even overstretching my weave and marking my fall. The conviction of my demise vanishes in a snap, because the glimmering cord slowly bends to a side and in a spiral extends down until it tenderly tenses up with but a gentle tug. The tug giving birth to the first tone of a melody filling the void around me, followed by the very same progressions my mind got drawn to and lulled to sleep by. Joined by the reverberations of my own woven strand it merges in with a timidity and tenderness. With reverence I let it slowly twist all the deeply familiar hums and melodies around itself. There is a heavy mystery to its beauty, and not only because of the alluring way it takes lead of my private symphony. The golden thread is not merely suspended from the knot in front of me. Under a mellow angle it is pulling me somewhere to a side and into the chasm below. My hearth is still pounding. The abyss fills me with dread. I am unable to decide whether to let the treasure go and untie the knot now, or wait to see what happens. The thread fills me with content and delight when I cast my eyes on it, but where is it pulling me? With a blend of joy and fright filling my entire being to a brim I stay still. 
	
	There’s nothing for me to do but wait, still my mind keeps racing. What is this place down in the darkness of time I have tied myself to? The dissonance of delight and fear of the unknown continues tearing at me. My eyes closed I let myself slip into the body, filling my chest and my limbs to the fingertips with consciousness, releasing the clutching and relaxing my muscles. The weight constricting my breathing dissolves into a warm hum ebbing and flowing from my head to my toes, and I keep still. Air fills my lungs with every breath, washing the anxiety from every corner of my soul, blending with fear and fusing with every worry stored somewhere deep inside, and exhaling the dense smoke out of my chest leaves me ever more serene. Alone in the desolate emptiness I open my eyes. There is only pitch blackness around, all the sounds subside while the golden strand pulls me to a side. No signs of any living souls, the echoes of the behemoth turning into whispers. There is only me and the gentle throbbing sounds emanating from my lifeline interweaved into the melody of the precious cord below. The uneasiness subsiding for a moment, a sense of curiosity replacing it. Never before there was a place to aim for down there, something pulling my mind into the dark future. There is work to be done. Taking the dangling threads around me I carefully resume the weave, keeping the golden thread in the centre of the braid.

What are you doing?

			What do you mean? I am doing what I’ve always done.
That is not true.
			If you say so. I don’t feel a difference.
You do.
			I am not afraid of what I find.
Are you not?
			No. Never before had I an aim, I am grateful.
Are you not afraid?
			Of course I am.

There you go. Stop lying to yourself.

			You are not me, leave me alone.
I indubitably am you.
			I don’t care. I don’t want you.

That is not your choice to make.

			What do you want?

The best for you. I am here to make sure you won’t destroy yourself.

			That won’t happen.

How are you so sure? See, I’ve always been here even though your memory might lapse. I come back from time to time to check up on you. There are times when you barely notice me, I have had many silent conversations with you and you never convinced me a single thought of yours is sane.

			Go away.
I won’t stay far.
			

	Taken by the weaving I barely notice the silent conversation in my mind. Tired of all that happened I cease my work and tune to the vast space surrounding me. The peace is somehow disconcerting. Looking up the long stretch of the braid I’ve only just weaved I notice a slight curve, the golden thread still drawing me somewhere, but far beneath I see nothing but darkness it disappears in. The mocking voice has dissolved, but it continues sending shivers down my spine. There have been moments and whole periods when I don’t feel alone, having a company of spirits to have mute debates with. Some are friendly, some less so and there is one in particular that chokes me with trepidation. We mostly communicate quietly, in images and feelings. His reflection can cover what I see and it takes effort to break the illusion, to glimpse what He’s hiding right in front of me. Occasionally I was unable to crack the mist of the mirror in time and I saw through too late, a thing dear to me disappearing in the distance. If only there was a way to get rid of Him, to let Him dissolve for good, shedding the madness, loneliness and doubt. When existence gets unbearable He appears as a companion. Unrecognisable from His real self I long for His presence. At the times when I hung limp getting devoured by the passing of time His voice lulled me to sleep with a false sense of security. He revels in tragedy, feasts on chaos, turns hope into despair and transforms fear into resigned paralysis. Slowly He transfigures the world into an inhospitable place. Discovering I had become Him violently yanks me from slumber, sobers me up and I recognise myself in a dreary, isolated state.

You need me and you know it.

			Go away.

	My mind drifts, soothed half asleep by the surrounding euphony still presenting me with new layers of sound to latch my attention onto. Mist comes forth from below in smokelike vortices, shrouding me from the world. The impenetrable cover feels comforting. A sense of density fills the air and my breathing turns heavier. I am not alone. Underneath me lurks a reflection drowning in a vast expanse of water stretching as far as my eyes can see. Its stare fixating upon me as if waiting for me to speak, but I find myself unable to. The mist lazily rolls around the surface and I just hang there, our sights locked onto each other. Extending my hand towards the mirror surface I see the figure draw back into the depth slightly and I stop the motion. Retracting away seems to calm the being, but it doesn’t break the silence. A thought flies through my head of releasing my grip and letting myself submerge, to uncover the mystery. I dismiss it, but it comes back with strength. Never ever I had let go of my life line, never before I even had the thought. Seeing my fingers loosen by themselves I brace for cold and darkness. Deep breath. Suddenly the thought is gone and with it the determination. The figure tilts its head almost imperceptibly to a side and I get lost in my own image reflected by its glare…

	My way down has continued ceaselessly for a while now. Before I would have spent all my effort to keep in place, stopping the passage into the abyss, but now I am descending along the golden thread with a steady tempo. There’s nothing to puncture the darkness and silence around me, even the winds have quieted. The thread still bends to a side and I’m tracing my way along the arch it draws through the expanse. The braid I’m weaving is not the thickest, but the gentle vibration of the golden string is assuring, calming and it builds trust in me for reasons I don’t understand. The work envelops me.

It’s gonna break.
			There’s no way to tell.
Exactly.
			It’s been holding me firmly for a while, what bad can come out of it?

You’re extending far, have you noticed how much you’re diverging?

			It is tethered somewhere, I wanna see that place.
Why?
			I don’t know, it’s filling me with hope.

There’s my insane friend. The string is going to break, or you’ll find it’s anchor dismal at the end. When you break the bond, you will take a swing not even you can deal with.

			You’re not shaking me right now, I have decided.

It’s your decision to make, but I have warned you.

			Stay out of my head.

There’s no other place for me to go.

			Go away.

You always say that. Haven’t I taken good care of you? I’ve been here for you when you lost all hope, listening to your whining and moaning, never judging you. I showed you all the dangers hiding in front of you, navigated your ship through all the dangerous shallows.

			You isolated me to keep me safe, limited me to a sliver of existence to shield me 				from the world, until there was nothing left of it, except for you. None of that 				was helpful.

You welcomed me every time, you know.

			I got work to do.

	There’s been a change in the melody as I descend. The delicate cord below has calmed and slowed into an adagio with broad progressions, the reverberations from the past above have eased and came to a serene pulse. The empty space now seems to return a plangent echo adding a sombre reverberation to the harmony. A tension has built up in the braid as it traces an arch into the misty ceiling dark. My bewilderment only increasing with every turn of the new weave. With only one way to go, my mind set. With every stretch of the golden thread I cover, the angle of the arch becomes sharper and sharper, being not far from horizontal now. The slow descend through the void of time has ceased for the first time of my existence.